Thanks a lot and then yeah nice to see
everyone here and thanks a lot for
inviting me here. So uh my name is Jayen
and then I'm currently a a member of
technical staff at Amazon 4 and then
soon um will join UPN as a system
professor. So today I'm going to talk
about integrate learning and planning
with neuros symbolic concepts.
So I want to start from you know this
broad question of you know how can we
build general purpose physical
intelligence that is you know some
system that can perceive can understand
in language that can take actions in the
physical world.
So one of the option to approach this
you know giant problem is you think
about intelligence as fitting functions
to some data sets. So for kind of
physical intelligence you say I want to
build a policy pie that maps from my
historical observations to the next
action to take and then to build that
you cut some data sets you know by
teleoperation or different kind of
techniques and this is taken by a lot of
the companies here in the west coast for
example this is a um a video released by
a company called physical intelligence
training their robot to fold boxes and
then to solve this particular task you
need you know a hundredth hours of
training data just for you know folding
boxes
And recently you know people have been
you know in order to show the generality
of such kind of approach people have
been trying to deploy such kind of
system on activators you know they're
training their system to generate you
know joystick commands to control an
activator to do some task for them and
this is you know the original Twitter
post but I want just to you know
highlight one of the sentences from it
which is you know in order to get here's
our first demo we collect 200 100
demonstrations for that you know simple
I would say you know activator kind of a
manipulation tasks. So overall we have
seen a lot of success of kind of you
know data fitting kind of approach but
overall they still have you know low
data efficiency meaning that you need a
lot of data to learn a relatively simple
task as appear to human and also they
have limited multitask performance that
is you know usually this policy is only
uh you know optimized for solving one
task pretty well but less lack the
generality
so I want to make a contrast between
that kind of paradigm with you know what
humans can do. I would argue humans can
learn from one example and then
generalize reliably to different states
and different goals. So again looking at
the activator as an example. So let's
just watch this video.
Okay. A very smart trick of manipulating
some objects on the you know on the
ground. I guess you probably have never
seen such kind of manipulation before
ever in your life. And despite that you
might not be able to you know actually
operate an activator this you know five
ton machine but I assume everyone could
already get some idea about this and you
can probably you know after some
practice you can also solve it yourself
right and another dimension is you know
generality or you know generalization to
different kinds of goals right so if you
think about house cleaning job you're
constantly facing different kinds of
goals incorporating different kind of
objects and you can still you know solve
all of
And here is another example showing you
know how generalizable human
manipulations are. So this is a physical
game that you can play yourself. You
have a bunch of t objects on the table
and you pick two of them holding down
one with each hand. And in this case,
you know, the cap and the pen. And the
task here is you want to pick up a third
object from the table without use your
hand to touch them, but use the tool
that you're currently holding. So this
is a trial by a human, you know, trying
to use a pen and a cap to lift up a
glass. Right? This is probably a task
you would you have never seen before,
ever in your life, and probably
something they would never seen after,
never want to solve ever in your life.
But you know by just looking at you know
this situation you can already make some
plans internally and by watching other
people showing it to you once you can
make a try yourself and adapt and you
know eventually maybe solve the task
very competently.
So I would argue what we want for
robotics is some system can match this
level of human level performance. That
is they can learn from very few
demonstrations some new capabilities and
being able to generalize across
different kind of scenarios.
So in today's talk I'm going to show you
some of my work aiming at a new paradigm
for solving such kind of problem trying
to achieve building AI that can learn
from very few demonstration on the order
of one to 10 and generalize reliably out
of distribution to novel states to novel
objects and to novel goals.
The central idea here is to combine
machine learning and policy learning and
everything with planning.
So it starts from this high level view
of thinking about physical intelligence
as a combination of world modeling and
planning. So if you look at this thing
as humans you not only see the pixels or
patches. What you'll see is that first
of all there are objects there and
object they have properties they have
shapes poses you know materials and so
on and you not only understand the state
in such kind of an abstract way you also
understand different actions you know
starting from the current state you can
say what are possible actions that I can
do in the current situation you can say
okay if I push the glass slightly to the
left with my pen what will happen
basically you're able to enumerate
possible actions that you can do and
also imagine before execution imagine
what will happen if you take the action
and such kind of paradigm you know can
you can use with a searchbased algorithm
you know trying to get a plan to
eventually solve the task
so this idea is you know when you're
spacing a task instead of you know
saying I'm directly following a policy
but instead what you have is a world
model that is you know how you model
what are the actions that you have and
then what are the outcome of these
actions
and do a planning with them. So I would
say the key idea is to plan with such
kind of compositional abstraction of
states and actions to solve the problem
and to achieve the generality
and you will see later what I will call
such kind of compositional abstraction
over states and actions neuros symbolic
concepts.
So you know all this is a bit abstract
but now I'm going to you know talk to
you about you know the details and then
know more the technical contents about
it. So the entire talk is outlined as
follows. I'm gonna first introduce some
basic ideas of neuros symbolic action
models with applications in one short
skill learning and then we're going to
add you know more reasoning into it
about you know uh in the language space
and about spatial reasoning with
applications in more complex instruction
following and finally we're going to
talk about how we can build neuros
symbolic planning compatible action
models with uh applications in long
horizon plan.
So now let's get into the first part.
So I want to start from talking about
how should we model an action
you know. So for example for a simple
task like a pick I want to pick an
object. I want to pick an entity using
one of my hands. So how should we really
represent the body you know the content
of it right? One of the straightforward
approach is you say this is a policy
that from your current state to the
target action and if you follow that
policy you will be picking up the
object.
But there's one limitation of this kind
of approach or issue.
If you look at at you know this you know
previous example of you know uh using
two tools to pick up a third object on
the table you can say okay let me try to
use three separate skills or actions to
achieve this goal. The first one is pick
up the pen, pick up the cap and then
pivot the gas and then you know uh pick
it up.
The issue is the way the particular way
that you pick up your pen actually
should be dependent on how later on you
want to pivot the glass because not
grasping pose of the same pen of the
same cap would work if later on you want
to pivot the glass and then pick it up
from the table. So this means that if
you learn those you know three policies
completely separately and directly just
you know execute them one by one you
would not be able to solve the task.
What do we call this is you know they
cannot be directly stitched together to
solve the final task. So this is one of
the limitation that is is lose you know
is uh lose of gener uh of
compositionality.
So another op uh option to think about
action generation is you think about
action generation as a constraint
optimization.
So again for the simple task of picking
uh pick up a plate from you know this
kitchen counter you can say my goal is
to generate trajectories that satisfy
first of all some past constraints. I
want to have my robots stay within my
joint limits. I want to avoid collision
with other objects in the environment.
And it has some subgoal constraints like
eventually I want to be holding the
target.
What this formulation bring us is now
you can compose multiple actions because
it's basically adding up the constraints
temporally and spatially.
So for example if you want to you know
pick up the plate and then place it onto
the rack
again you have the same set of like a
pass constraints. You want to stay
within joint limits. You want to avoid
collision. And you have the first sub
goal which you want to be holding the
target. And second of all, you want to
have the plate on the rack.
And mathematically this can be you know
written down as a constraint
optimization um problem saying you are
I'm giving you the current state which
compos of you know the joint position
the object position and so on.
I want to find two trajectories T1 and
T2 and two states S1 S2
minimize some cost let's say the total
length of my trajectory
subject to the dynamics of the system
like starting from S0 if I execute T1
I'm reaching state S1 and then if I
execute T2 I reach state S2 other
constraints like my trajectory should be
collision free other sub goal
constraints like I want to be holding
the target. I want to, you know,
continue holding the target while I'm,
you know, moving to the rack and then
finally having the rack on, uh, you
know, you know, having a plate on the
rack.
So all those constraints can be
categorized into several categories.
Some of them are rigid body dynamics,
some of them are some geometric
constraints
and some of them are more task relevant
constraints.
So what this view gives you is that now
you can think about learning could
happen in two different levels. You can
say in order to learn how to accomplish
the task, the first step is I want to
learn what are the set of constraints I
need to follow in order to solve this
task and second of all how can I
generate those trajectories or states or
grasping poses or those continuous
values that will satisfy those
constraints and we'll soon see you know
what is the usage of this
and another thing is now some of those
constraints can be modeled with humanu
models for example for rigid body
physics we can just use you know
physical simulators for them for some
geometric constraints we can use motion
planner to find solutions to them we
don't have to learn everything from data
and only for the important thing like
those task relevant pieces we're going
to learn them from data
so I want to ground all those you know
things in a concrete example let's say
we want to learn how to hand an object
from a single example
so let's say this is the demonstration
that I'm giving to you know someone is
you know u picking up this hanger and
put it on a rock.
Now I want to generalize this skill to a
complete unseen situation you know where
the task is to put the mug onto the mug
tree.
And here this problem is challenging
because if you think about this as you
want to pick the grasping pose on the
target and then a hanging pose of the of
the object on the on the mug tree and
then really those things are jointly
constraining each other because not
every grasping for example if you're
grasping the mug from the uh from the
handle then there will be no space to
put that onto the m tree.
So this is a very classical you know
robotics manipulation problem. A lot of
the approach that have been you know u
proposed to solve this problem one of
them is you just rely on model based
planning that is you know you you know
kind of like a search over possible
trajectories for moving the object and
then until you know you find a
successful pass but this is very slow
a more modern learning based approaches
you know operates as the following. You
do some enterprise learning and some
policy learning afterwards. Usually the
idea is that you collect a large data
set of possible mugs and you train some
geometric feature on top of it and then
based on this feature you train another
policy that generates the robot actions.
Okay, but first of all you know the
performance is still you know not really
satisfactory and second of all you
really need a lot of data for you know
different kinds of mugs and it does not
transfer across category very well.
So based on the framework that we had
before now we can decompose the problem
into two parts. The first set is that we
want to learn you want to solve this
hanging task. What are the set of
constraint I need to follow. This is
equivalent to detecting what is the
sequence of contacts that I need to make
between my robot and different objects.
Like in the first step I want to make
contact with the uh with the mug and
then I want to have the mug having a
contact with the mug tree.
And [snorts] second of all is how can I
compute what are the contact positions I
need to I need to be uh making contacts.
So our solution to this problem is we're
doing a constraint optimization with
visual correspondence guidance.
So on the top left there is uh you know
the demonstration and also I'm
highlighting the point that is the
contact point in the demonstration.
This is a what you need is you want to
say if I want to manipulate the target
object what is a similar point on that
target object so that I should make
contact on right it's like for example
looking at the hanger position like what
is the corresponding functional points
on the target object would have the same
affordance
and this can be solved with a lot of
different approaches and then the
particular approach we're using is we
use some portrain the visual feature and
then we compute uh the visual feature
correspondence there we're using Dino V2
in this particular case. But this is not
enough because you know if you visualize
this you know uh you know heat map of
you know what is the most probable point
to make context very noisy and a lot of
the proposals are wrong. So you should
only use this as a guidance and then
verify them with a model based planning
to go through the entire you know motion
planning and you know grasping analysis
and stability analysis so that you can
make sure what is the good contact
points. But this is gives you like a
gigantic speed up over a blind surge
baseline that is you know enumerating
randomly sample possible contact points
on the on the object.
And this gives you you know this one
short generalization to those normal
scenario like picking up this mug and
then place it onto the mug tree.
And then of course you know here we're
relying on some models to do some heavy
lifting for us including we use model
for 3D construction. We use a physical
simulator to help us to you know test if
a compact is stable or not.
And this generalizes to other kinds of
you know mugs and also different kind of
kitchen wear.
This is another very interesting you
know uh you know uh result that I want
to show like we 3D printed some you know
alphabetical shapes and we say okay hand
those alphabetical shapes onto the m
tree and then you know this is a nice
set because you know first of all they
look very different from you know mugs
or from you know uh hangers that have
seen there but also they have a lot of
like a diversity in terms of geometric
structure right and you can see our
model you know is deciding on you know
where they want to pick up and then
where to you know to place your hand.
You can also benchmark this. If you say
I do you know oneshot you know policy
learning on you know if you stress test
it on this like you know completely
unseen alphabetical shapes the
performance is like zero. Of course you
know if you have more demonstration will
be better better. Uh if you do some you
know uh use the visual correspondence
using the visual feature to help you to
do the policy learning you get slightly
better performance but still far away
from perfect. And our model overall give
you over 90% success rate on this
particular test set.
So to quickly summarize, we have been
talking about this idea of doing one
short learning of generalizable actions
which is you know we can learn from one
or very few demonstrations and
generalize to different kinds of objects
in different kind of situations.
The principle here is we are combining
neural representations to give us some
guidance about you know uh functional
correspondence and physical models to do
you know the the stability analysis you
know this kind of thing for us within
this constraint optimization framework
by integrating them and then we get the
best of both worlds which is both
efficient and generalizable.
So the you know the approach that I've
been uh talking about so far can also be
extended to you know slightly longer
horizon manipulation task too. So here
I'm you know teaching my robot using two
sticks to you know rotate an object on
the table and push it
and lift it up and then each with just
one single demonstration.
And now I ask the robot to operate on a
new scenario with you know completely
unseen targets. This is like a different
letter and pick it up and the model is
automatically you know generalized
individual skills and then compose them
together to finally lift it up. So this
is kind of similar to the ABC pickup but
also in a very constraint setting like
you know all the objects are relatively
simple and then they are rigid but still
you know some initial sign of life about
you know how far or how generalizable
this kind of approach can go.
Okay,
so so far you know all those
demonstrations have been you know
relatively short horizon. We have been
talking about you know a few objects
making contact with each other. Of
course you know if you want to have you
know more general purpose robot that can
work in your household this is not
sufficient. So we need to add more to
the system. Um and in the next part of
the talk I'm going to briefly mention
how we can extend this framework by
integrating some um more machine
learning components in this particular
case diffusion models to help us to do
some spatial reasoning.
We're looking at a particular you know
uh manipulation problem which is setting
up tables. Okay. So suppose that I'm
giving you this language instruction.
Let's say uh let's set up a bracket
first table and then there's no snack
today and then this is what you would
expect you know from from the robot and
this problem is challenging because you
know a lot of time you would you have to
learn from this humans you know
preferences and also you have limited
data for this kind of problem settings
and there are relatively long horizon if
you want to you know set up a table it
usually takes you know minutes of
manipulation
and there are a lot of variabilities
So if you follow if you use the same
tool which is you know con optimization
trying to think about this problem you
can say the problem is essentially
I want to find the object poses that
satisfy some constraints
that is you know some spatial
constraints among each other in this
particular case let's say our goal is to
given the shapes of different objects
like the apple the plate the spoon and
everything I want to find the pose of
each one of them subject to you know the
apple is on the left of the plate the uh
you know the spoon is on the right of
the plate and then you know maybe the
mug is on is next to it and then some
something else
and this is can be you know better
visualized in a graphical kind of a
structure that is you know I want to
find the pose of all these objects you
know which subject to you know some uh
constraints among each
So again if you formulate the problem in
this particular way now you get the
leverage. Now learning happen at two
levels. You say
I want to find the set of constraints I
need to satisfy if I want to set up a
table following human instruction.
And it is worth noting that a lot of
those you know what are the constraints
like which object should be placed on
the left of which is actually common
sense knowledge. So you can actually
leverage those you know pre-trained
large language models or visual language
model to help you to you know um to
learn those kind of um um to output
those kind of common sense knowledge
instead of learning everything from
robot demonstrations.
So the intel system look like work like
the following. So starting from some
language goals and you know some you
know initial um image containing all the
object uh shapes we have a vision
language model
>> [clears throat]
>> um that generates what do we call an
abstract um you know spatial
relationship graph that is you know for
each individual objects what are there
spatial relationships and we have a like
a finite library of possible
relationships like a left or right you
know horizontally aligned or vertically
splitted or things like that and then
during this Since this pro procedure you
can also provide additional examples
showing what is your preference. For
example, we can say okay so uh I'm in
I'm I come from like a Chinese family.
So I can say I give you some instruct I
give you some examples about how my
family usually set up um our dining
table.
And after that we use what we call a
compositional diffusion model which I
will introduce in the next slide to
actually generate the pose of all the
objects and subsequently how can I
control my robot to move the object to
the target pose.
Here I don't have enough time to talk
about the details about you know this
graph generation procedure but at a high
level we are using some programming
synthesis technique to generate the
layouts.
Now I want to you know dive into you
know this compositional diffusion models
which you know takes as input this
graphical structure which is totally
symbolic and it generates continuous
values in this case the pose of the
objects.
How do we do it
for each of the relationship we have we
for each kind of the relationship for
example left we have a dedicated model a
diffusion model trained on it. So for
people who are not familiar with that
you can think about diffusion model
takes as input you know the pose of
objects the shape of objects and outputs
an energy value sorry uh by the way this
is not like a c you know this very
standard formulation of diffusion model
but I will um soon talk about you know
what is the relation between them but
for now for a minute think about there's
an there's a scalar energy function that
quantifies how well does my input which
is the shape and the pose satisfy this
constraint which is a is left of b.
Okay.
And then if you look at the original
optimization problem you can write it
down as a minimization problem that is
you know given the shape of objects you
want to find the post of objects which
minimizes the summation of all the
energy functions over all the
constraints that you have. Okay.
And in practice this diffusion model is
not exactly predicting you know the
energy value which is a single scala but
they're predicting the gradients over
the inputs so that you know if I move
this object slightly to the left then it
will be more subject to you know a is
left of b. So in practice those things
are predicting some gradients of you
know over the inputs
and then we can basically combine those
diffusion models by adding up those
gradients to solve the original problem.
So here's a visualization of it. So this
is what a gradient field or an energy
field would look like for a learner
diffusion model. So for example, if you
say I have my diffusion model for you
know near front edge then this means
that you know when you're close to the
edge of the table you know your energy
value is lower
and then you also have the gradients
pointing towards you know the closer to
you to the to the to the table and then
for other kind of constraints like this
one is left of the other this one is
right of the other you have different
kinds of energy fields and the gradients
and the optimization takes place where
basically you add up all those energy
and energy landscapes together and then
you know also you know the gradients all
together to form a new composed field
and then this is one of the example and
from there you draw the you find the
minimum you know value or the value that
minimizes the energy function and which
gives you the position of the target
object that you want and then I'm
skipping a lot of you know technical
details here but uh the particular
technique for us to draw samples from it
is called you know um un adjusted launch
dynamics and then we actually have some
proofing that you know our method is
more simplified from actually sampling
from the target distribution but it's
unbiased sample. You can take you can
take a look at the paper to see more
details about the mathematics behind it.
But a high level idea is that once you
have trained you know individual models
for each of your kinds of you know
relationships now for new set of
relationships you can just compose them
at inference time without without
additional training to generate
placements of objects.
And this approach could work in a lot of
different diver scenarios. for example
for study desks, for you know uh coffee
tables, for dining tables
and we also managed to you know do real
robot execution by integrating
additional you know motion constraints.
So for example in this case we have our
robots you know we have like two arms
actually on like set up um um on both
sides of the table and then each robot
actually has their own workspace. So
when you're planning, you also need to
take into consideration the motion
constraints of this robots. Like the
left robot can only put objects on the
left hand side of the table.
And then we have a bunch of you know uh
assets for the robots to set up. And
then the robot first you know synthesize
a plan that is subject to you know all
the motion constraints of the robots and
also you know all the geometric
constraint the spatial relationships
that is predicted by the large language
model and then we can execute them.
This is you know accelerated video but
you know eventually can set up the table
for you and you can give it diverse set
of instructions and then you know they
can they can follow.
So here I'm showing you a you know very
simple extension but extending the
previous you know constraint
optimization framework with more you
know machine learning components in this
particular case diffusion models so that
we can achieve learning from field
demonstrations and then generalize to
new things and a new kind of like a
spatial reasoning tasks.
The principle here is we're composing
you know neurode diffusion models within
this neuros symbolic constraint
optimization framework
and we're leveraging long large language
models for some common sense knowledge
and of course you know currently I'm
primary showing you examples in you know
spatial reasoning but of course you know
the same thing could be extended to
diffusion models of actions of you know
trajectories and so on.
Okay, so so far our reason is still
about you know about spatial but in
order to really solve longer task you
need reason about things temporarily.
So therefore in the next part of the
talk I'm going to talk about you know
neuros symbolic planning compatible
action models.
So let me clarify the problem setting
we're looking at here. We're trying to
do learning to solve long horizon
planning. Let's say we have some data
which is you know in our case 10
demonstrations about a particular task.
In this case you know uh pick up you
know the dishwash uh sorry um the dish
soap and then you know do some pouring
and then clean the plates and so on. And
each demo here only show you how to wash
a single plate.
And our goal is to make long horizon
plans with you know different kind of
obstacles or even different kind of
plates
uh you know in a similar scenario.
This is one of the example where we are
asking our model to you know watch two
plates and sort them on the rack.
So there's one particular aspect make
this task challenging is because you
actually need to reason deliberately
about in which order you want to watch
these plates because the the movements
of the you know the further away plates
will actually be blocked by the initial
position of the first plate. So your
model cannot say you know I just in
arbitrary order I you know you know
watch this place and put them onto the
rack but I need to actually think about
if the space allows me to do it.
So how can we achieve this?
The kind of idea is want to use language
to help us to make sense of long horizon
plans shown in the demonstration. So
again starting from some demonstration
video
the first thing we do is we're using
video language models uh back in the
days Gemini
to help us segment the entire trajectory
into several segments
and each segment they will also give it
some action name like this one is you
know picking up that one is adjust or
something
and then we'll be using some vision
models to help us to segment those point
cows, you know, this raw observations
into, you know, 3D uh point clouds so
that I can do future learning on
and what this gives you is, you know,
for each step in your demonstration, you
can say here are the here are all the
relevant sorry here are all the relevant
objects involved in each step and then
you get the trajectory of those object
points
and of course your robot uh your robot
hand too.
So what you get if you have a data set
like that for example 10 demonstrations
is a few demos on the order you know one
to 10 um for each individual skill or
each action like pickup you want to
learn.
So because we want to do planning we not
only need to know how can we execute a
task but as I briefly mentioned before I
also need to know what will happen if I
take this action. So basically each
action will be modeled in two parts. The
first part is what we call the
trajectory constraints that is how can I
generate a trajectory that will pick up
the object
or place the object and another one is
what is the state what is the future
state like where the objects will be if
I after I execute this action.
So um to operationalize this what we
have is you know we have our the input
to the trajectory constraint
satisfaction model is the initial
position of the gripper and also you
know the object point house and then we
have we train a diffusion model on top
of it to generate you know possible
trajectories. You know some of the time
is placing the book on the left some of
the time is placing book on the right.
This depends on you know what is the
data coverage you have in your
demonstration.
The second piece of model takes the
initial states like you know the gripper
position and the original point count
and also your inferred trajectory
to predict what will happen in this
particular case. You know where those
points will be at after I execute this
policy or execute this trajectory.
you know of course additional you know
uh other state changes like you know uh
this is vertical line or some other
things could be also incorporating this
model but here let's just focus on you
know the geometric parts of it like how
the object pose would change
now giving a new scenario let's say I
want to place this book onto the shelf
what I can do is that I can first come
up with a high level plan or what do we
call like a task skeleton that is you
know a sequence of actions you want to
you want to take but without deciding
what is exactly the trajectory you need
to execute
and you can internally simulate if I
take this particular trajectory what
will happen for example if you adjust
this pink book you know to towards the
left then you know the the pink book
will be rotated and then it will be you
know um touching the left hand side of
the shelf
you can also you know enumerate you know
the next action based on this state
saying okay after that if I place my
book following that trajectory will it
succeed or not? Right? In this
particular case, it will fail because
now the book the point cloud of the book
will now colliding will now be [snorts]
colliding with um the uh the point cloud
of that clock. So this is not a feasible
plan. So due to your collision
so now this means that you need to try
you know a different possible
trajectory. And then in this case let's
say this time you sample a trajectory
that is placing the book on the left and
then you know this time it's it
succeeded and you can execute it first
you know pick up the book from the table
you know push the pink book towards the
left and then finally do the insertion
of the new uh green book.
Okay. So what do we really stress here
is the generalization of such kind of
policy. In particular, we are training
our policy on the following scenarios.
First of all, you know, all the objects
they're kind of like axis aligned. They
are kind of like a you know well setup
table
and second of all at the most the two
books are is like the total height of
the books are two
and we are testing it in various
different kind of scenarios including
new heights like there are more books
you know new new different you know
position orientation of different
objects. These are um you know different
you know x-ray position or you know
different orientation of things and also
you know uh in scenarios with novel
obstacles you have never seen before
and you can see our model is capable of
finding plans in all different kind of
situations where if you uh directly
train you know a policy model that
solved the entire task end to end it's
not able to do it and we have more
comparison in the paper
here is an standard version of the you
know the mug tree hanging experiment
that we seen at the very beginning of
the talk. So here we're training, we're
collecting some data to hand different
kind of mugs onto this mug tree and then
we have 10 demonstrations per mug and
then but for each demonstration you only
hand the mug uh you know only hand one
of the mugs.
But now if you have to hand all the mugs
onto the mug tree, you not only need to
you know be proficient in hanging a
single mug but also need to make some
plan about you know where those like
which mug should go onto which branch
right and also the order of them so that
you make sure that a future hand mug
won't be colliding with the existing mug
and our model is you know making some
delivery plans about this and then you
know attribute them in the physical
And here's another example, you know,
having, you know, different kind of in
uh different set of muscles in different
initial states and so on.
Okay.
So
what I have seen in this part of the
talk is we enable you know future
learning of action models and then use
planning to you know combine them
together you know by using trajectory
samplers to sample possible trajectories
and then using our transition model to
predict the future before we actually
execute them and then select what is the
best sequence of action to act
and then the advantage of such kind of
system is you know again you can learn
from very demonstrations and in general
reliably to a wide variety of different
situations.
Here the principle here is we're
composing some neural trajectory
generation models using you know very
similar framework as you know the
diffusion models we talked about before
and transition models also learned
within this neuros symbolic planning
framework and then you know to put those
things in you know more modern you know
words it's like we're combining neuro
trajectory generation model with world
models to help us to do the planning and
then you know select the best plan
And also here we are uh leveraging you
know large vision and a language models
to do a lot of heavy lifting for us
including you know segmenting objects
segmenting relevant objects and also
teaching you some common sense knowledge
but all at the symbolic level but put
that into the learning framework to make
learning more efficient and put the
planning more generalizable.
So overall in today's talk I've been
talking about this idea of you know uh
neuros symbolic concepts and we are
talking about you know learning and
planning with neuros symbolic concept to
enable more data efficient learning such
as you know learning actions from a
single or very few demonstrations
and with generalization to completely
unseen objects and states and possible
goals.
So someone might argue okay so all the
examples that are true here are you know
in relative you know low data regimes
okay so now in the error foundation
models should I ever still care about
this I mean or will this problem just be
natural outcome of you know large models
with train on larger data so before I
really end I want to you know give some
of my self-reflection on how I think
about this kind of framework of like a
neural symbolism in the era of
foundational models
and I will show you you know why this
kind of ideas is still very very
important and actually uh very useful
especially for academic research.
First of all, so far I've been showing
you know neuro symbolic more like you
know algomic uh framework to help you to
achieve some particular application but
there's a lot of scientific aspects
about it. Basically neuros symbolic
system provides insights into the
scientific understanding of tasks and
learning. What do I mean by that is
using this kind of framework allows you
to not treating your data or your task
or your model as a blackbox but it gives
you you know insights you know lens into
it such as you can analyze using the
actually using very similar related
techniques that I just talked about in
this talk to analyze the expressiveness
of new big neuronet networks including
graph neuronet networks or transformers
and also you can talk about for a
problem let's say I want to learn to
hand or want to learn to wash dishes.
How hard are they? You can talk about
the parameterized the circuit complexity
for those for those models and then they
will also have impact or have you know
implications on how much data do you
need in order to train such kind of
model or is it even possible to train
such kind of model that can be comp uh
to be very capable for the task using a
finite amount of data. This is what we
call like identifiability problem in
machine learning.
And also you know robotics is not just
like a a you know simple machine
learning problem but eventually it will
become a system engineering problem
because due to you know data
availability and also latency reasons
just simply any practical robot system
should be a compositional system you
know that combine of you know high level
planning you know lower level you know
control and so on.
So neuros symbolic systems provide you
know a principal way to think about the
integration of all different pieces
including perception, memory tracking,
planning and control. And recently we're
you know building on top some of the
insights we got in developing some of
our passive systems. We're releasing you
know open sourcing this new framework
called you know retriever. It's a
programming model um for closed loop
robot agents and then it is based on the
principle of you want to have in
synchronous robot action robot [snorts]
action and also you want to do time
explicit typing that is you know for
each of the modules for example high
level modules or low-le control modules
you want to explicitly annotate what is
their control frequency and you know how
they should be you know uh composed
together and this is a demo that is you
know playing at you know uh close to you
to to real speed of a system that is
able to make plans, you know, long
running plans where the task is to, you
know, season the stick and then also
track a memory. In this case, you know,
they're searching in different uh
drawers to find the target and then
finally, you know, having robot action
control and all those things are, you
know, there only two playback. So this,
you know, our system because of
asynchronous uh execution and a task uh
and sorry and then time explicit typing.
So it's really really efficient and also
very smooth. Another
thing is um now we have you know better
and a better you know foundation model
for all different kind of tasks like we
have you know better computer vision
models, language models and you know
also you know uh action models.
Now it become more and more important to
compose different kind of systems with
principled algorithms for you know uh of
like probabilistic reasoning or planning
compared to just like a a simple chain
of thoughts.
So what do I mean by that is so far in
this talk you have been looking at you
know I building you know here are the
features that I care about I'm learning
some action models for hanging for
grasping for you know washing plates and
I'm composing them together using some
you know search algorithm or inference
algorithms
if you scale this up you can imagine
what it would need is what do we call
like a model orchestrator that is you
know tell you what are the set of
constraints or what are the features
what are the action models you would
care out in a particular environment and
also having models that can recognize
object states that can generate possible
trajectories and so on.
So for example giving you know this is
the context like I want to wash this
plate and then I have you know models
that can tell me what are possible
states features and action models that I
should care about and for each one of
them I could have you know models that
can take as input my sensor input and
then you know some concept that I care
about and generate different kinds of
outputs like a boolean label or you know
a pose a trajectory or even forces and
so on
and for robotics One thing I'm really
excited about is you know how we can
build novel paradigms for training such
kind of a model from diverse kind of
data. So for example if you think about
like object detection or classification
you don't necessarily need robot action
data to to to supervise on it right but
at test time you can say all this all
these model can be composed together
using a principled neuros symbolic
reasoning algorithm such as constraint
satisfaction
and this is analogous to you know
nowadays you heard a lot of this word
called like agent hardness right that
you have like a different agents that
can do different small task but you
still need to have a system that can
really compose them together to solve a
more complicated task and neuros
symbolism gives you a lot of you know
insights into how to design such kind of
system
and finally about data. So actually you
know raw data we all as we all know is
very very hard very challenging to
collect. So and another perspective to
put it is we really hope we can have
continual learning capability of some
self-improving models for task
generation, planning and policy
learning.
So what do I mean by that is you know
currently most of the demos that I show
no matter you know how generalizable
they are they still say human provide
some data to the system and then they
learn from it very efficiently now it
can solve more problems. But what we
really hope is you say you start from
some basic compositional systems you
know basic compositional foundation
models. Now you use the reasoning and
planning and maybe you know exploration
algorithms that you have developed to
get new capability and then to get new
experience in the world and hopefully
these can become you know the data to
train the next generation of
foundational models which will then
become you know the basis for the future
iteration. With that, this is a
framework that you can really you know
starting from the basic capabilities
like you know basic capabilities for
recognizing objects for you know pick
and place you know for some other you
know small skills and then really
explore yourself and then find new
capabilities and then you know refine
your model further and further.
So again you know this thing is already
happening I would say in for example
agent research or in uh in just you know
vision language model research where
people are composing different kind of
foundation model with different kind of
capability but distill the knowledge
into each other to get you know even
stronger capability. For example,
starting from a vision language model
that can only give you labels for an
object given some conversation history
and a model that can do segmentation.
For example, you know, segment anything
models. You can distill the knowledge
into each other to get a model that can
support you know promptable segmentation
that is you know you can give it
arbitrary text instructions and then it
can give you um you know language
command uh sorry segmentation maps.
So overall I've been talking about this
framework uh that I've been building in
the past about neuros concepts to enable
you know more data efficient learning
and you know better generalization. I
would say this is a new bat for
generally intelligent systems which you
know really bridges our understanding of
intelligence that is you know how we
think about the modularity of them how
we think about the fundamental harness
the complexity of them and leverage
those insights into our building process
to build you know better and better
systems.
So with all that I want to you know
thank all the funding agencies that
funds you know most of these um projects
during my PhD study and uh my advisors
and collaborators and also some of the
mentees of mine during my PhD who
contributed to this work. With all that
thanks everyone for listening.
[applause]
>> I'm happy to take questions if there's
any.
>> Yes. I'm wondering the common sense
knowledge at symbolic level
>> or do you think it's infinite or like do
model today have enough common sense
knowledge at symbolic level?
>> Um I think it depends on it depends on
like what do you mean by like a symbolic
level because you can also describe you
know fine grain geometric things with
like a super super long kind of like a
paragraphs. I think um I would say we're
still far away from leveraging the full
reperatory of existing semantic
knowledge in those large models in
robotics. We're still far away from like
a having that as a bottleneck for us.
Yeah.
Um so in the example with the box I saw
on the shelf you mentioned that like
future states were being generated like
predicted from the I was wondering like
how were those future states evaluated
as like successes or failures?
>> Um by evaluation do you mean like like
how do we evaluate the quality of them?
Do you mean like how would you predict
it
>> like like how did you determine that
that was like a successful like
desirable state like
>> oh I see I see yeah so uh that
particular uh so uh the in that
particular system uh uh what we do is
we're using a vision language model to
help us to generate the task skeleton
that we know can achieve the task
relevant part of it and then the future
state prediction is only handling ing
the physical fitability parts like
there's no collision and things are
stable and things like that.
So basically again you know there's a
you know uh there they do different work
like the vision language model is using
oh it's a semantic knowledge to talk
about some task a goal kind of like
level understanding and then the um
transition model we learned and so the
trajectory is more handling you know the
low-level control part we making sure
everything is physically feasible. Yeah.
What is the policy?
>> Sorry, what is the diffusion policy?
>> Oh, because the because what do you need
is you need a model [clears throat] that
not only you know generate a single
possible trajectory to do this task,
right? Because if you want to, you know,
put a bunch of b put let's say sort a
bunch of books onto the bookshelf,
right? You need to say here are possible
ways or possible places that I can place
the book, right? So basically you need a
probabistic model of possible
trajectories or possible target poses
and that's that is model with a
diffusion model. Yeah.
>> Put the clock away.
>> Uhhuh.
>> Yeah, that's possible. Yeah,
>> there secondary byproduct effects that
are some are desirable, some are not.
How do you think about maybe either
during or after the fact to figure out
why
figuring out that it's not the wrong
thing?
>> Yeah, that's a that's a very good
question. Um, yeah. So, so by the way,
sorry I'm not sure if you know people
over the internet can hear you know the
questions but the question was you know
in the task of uh you know putting books
onto the bookshelf uh another option is
that you can uh remove the clock from
the bookshelf and then place the book at
the at the at its location and then the
question is you know how can you um
verify or make sure that the model is
choosing the correct behavior the the
you know the preferred behavior right uh
this is very question and then we
honestly we didn't do much of
exploration in this particular work. Um,
one thing that I would say is possible
is you can say um, human preferences are
just additional utility functions that
you should factoriize into the overall
planning framework. Right? For example,
you can say, okay, while I'm placing all
those books, I would have prefer to put
them together next to each other than,
you know, spread it out over the Intel
bookshelf, right? And then that's that
is actually another important reason why
you want to have such kind of you know
compositional system where you you have
learned to you know generate a possible
book placement poses and introjectories
and but at inference time you you can
factor in additional constraints from
either you know user preferences or
additional physical constraints and find
a solution that is simultaneously
satisfy all of them and then yeah that's
one of the possible way to implement
that.
Yeah. Uh, yes. So, yeah. Yeah. Please.
>> Thanks for the break. So, I'm wondering
what's the I guess in terms of planning
time. So, are you guys planning like an
over trajectory and execute?
>> Mhm.
>> So, do you think it's possible to do it
in clos or takes too long to? Uh
actually in the in the in the in this
particular video what we're showing it's
already closed loop um execution in the
retriever example where you know there's
a there's some you know u model doing
some high level planning for us which is
operate at for example 0.5 hertz you
know two seconds per it duration and
some like a memory tracking system that
is operating at one hertz and then but
all of those systems are still you know
keep like keep um predicting you know
keep adjusting based on the new
observations that I get from the
environment right so for example here um
you know after observing that open after
opening let me go back to the beginning
so after opening the you know the left
drawer actually didn't see you know the
chili pepper right so I know I need to
update my memory and also also my plan
to explore a different drawer right so
all those things are executed in the
closed loop and you know uh in the
previous work of like a sorting books we
didn't do that um closed loop execution
But it's definitely possible to do it.
And then previously what we wasn't able
to do that is because you know if you
want to actually do them like
asynchronously there are a lot of like
engineering challenges because different
modules actually operate at different um
speeds and then they need to sync up the
states together and then that was a
challenge with you know standard you
know sequential programming models and
that's part of the reason why we uh
developed this new framework to do this.
Yeah.
>> More this
Um, amazing by the way. I was just
wondering for like this specific
experiment, did you have like a
simulation environment that you're
testing or
>> how do you if we wanted to test some
things in the way what is the best way
to
>> Yeah, the question was for this
particular demo do we have um, you know,
corresponding simulation experiments
with it? Yes, we do have uh not exactly
this particular scene set up but similar
things you know set up in the in the
simulation so that you can also run roll
out the system in simulation. Yeah.
>> Is it just on this website?
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> You did you did not say I was curious
you didn't say very much about the neuro
aspect why neuros
a little bit on that.
>> Yeah. Uh the question was like what is
the neuro aspects of this? So basically
uh in the you know in basically all the
works I' I've been talking about um
there is a symbolic structure that is
helping you to structure you know what
is your reasoning process like I want to
find values to satisfy all these set of
constraints right let's say some you
know some of the constraints are about
geometry like avoid collision some of
the constraints are about you know task
like I want to have the object at a
particular location or I want to have
this object stably hand at a particular
the location, right? And then u the
symbolic part is about that graphical
structure of that constraint graph. And
then each individual, let's say edge of
that graph is associated actually with a
neuronet network because you need
neuronet network models to help you to
generate you know object poses or
grasping poses or you know uh contact
points that can you know uh that can you
know satisfy those constraints. And the
important thing is that overall these
neural networks do not operate on
themselves like you know I I make my
prediction you make your prediction but
overall they are integrated together
saying I want to have v values that
simultaneously satisfy all the
constraints and then that is you know uh
um what the you know the composition
inference algorithm does. Yeah great
questions. Thanks.
>> Yeah, I think we have to wrap up, but
[applause]